anticholinergics can be used to describe
any medication reducing effects of acetylcholine,
a chemical messenger important for nerve and muscle functioning.
Acetylcholine's effects are activated
when attached to specific receptors.
There are two major types of these receptors,
nicotinic and muscarinic.
Stimulation of nicotinic receptors affects the
brain's memory centers and skeletal muscles.
Stimulation of the muscarinic receptors
tightens smooth muscle in the lungs,
bladder, eye, stomach and glands.
Anticholinergic medications can attach to the specific receptors
to prevent acetylcholine stimulation generally
or in specific locations.
While not fully understood,
blocking nicotinic receptors may affect memory and body movement.
Blocking specific muscarinic receptors
causes smooth muscle relaxation.
This can lead to greater airflow in the lungs,
reduce nausea or motion sickness,
fewer urges to urinate,
dilation of the pupil in the eyes,
and reduced bodily secretions.